Creating an installer for your BCBG mod:

Creating an installer is very easy.

1. Download the source and build the installer.
2. Open the built installer .jar with 7zip.
3. Create a folder outside the .jar called mod
4. Put all your mod files in /mod
5. Create five files:
    .title - contains 1 line, the title of your mod (used for the window and with special characters changed to underscores for the folder name)
        example:
            $ cat .title
            TEST MOD
        The title bar of your installer would be BCBG Installer: TEST MOD, and the folder your mod would be installed to would be /patches/TEST_MOD
    .desc - shown in the description tab
        example: it's just a bunch of text...
    banner.png - also shown in the decription tab
        example: hard to show in a txt file, but it's basically just a .png. The window will resize to fit it but keep in mind ungodly huge banners will look ugly.
        Suggestion: use the support signature as a banner
    .lic - shown in the liscense tab
        example: it's just text. You're free to choose your own license. However, a disclaimer will be added to the end of your license by me.
            BCBG and this installer created by Rotten194 et al, not the mod author. 
            This is simply a repacking of the BCBG mod installer. 
            Do not contact the mod author with installer issues, report them on the BCBG thread.
    bcbg.index - an index of all your mod files (DO NOT INCLUDE THE PREVIOUSLY LISTED BCBG METADATA FILES). List every class and resource, with extension, one per line.
        example:
            $ cat bcbg.index
            banner.png
            bar.txt
            foo.txt
            InstallLogger.class
6. Drop them all in the mod folder as well
7. Drag your /mod folder into the root of the.jar (with META-INF and net -- DO NOT DELETE ANYTHING)
8. Run the installer via command line to make sure it doesn't spit out any errors. Check your /patches to make sure it installed to .minecraft correctly. Upload and distribute!